There's one more concept that I believe we need to really understand, at least have some ideas about
the lambdas that will be very helpful, especially if we are going to talk about compose or we're going
to go and explore it and compose.
But even if you aren't going to do and compose this concept, it's really, really interesting and important.
This concept that I'm going to be talking about is called trailing lambda to explain to you what trailing
lambda is.
Well, first of all, we have to understand that you can pass functions as parameters to a function,
as you see here.
So you see at the top, we have fun enhanced message, right?
And then we have message as a string and then we have this fun as parameter.
So it is a function that we're passing as a parameter instead of enhanced message function.
So this whole function here returns an integer, but that's not that important at this point.
So you see then in the body of this function, remember this is not a lambda at the top there at all.
It's just a normal function that we're passing a function parameter.
And so we then print a message which we're passing.
And then we also print the fun as parameter function where the contents of it.
Notice that, of course, this fun as parameter, we turns into not the enhanced message, but the parameter
function that is in the past is actually returning an integer.
OK, so how would we call this?
It's very simple.
We call by saying enhance the message.
We passed the message Hello Paolo or Hello, James.
All right.
And then you notice something interesting here and then we have a lambda.
How is it even possible?
Well, Kotlin allows you to do so because if you put, this is a very, very crucial.
If you put a function as a parameter and that function as a parameter is the last thing or the last
parameter that has been passed, then we can actually invoke a lambda, right?
In other words, according to Cartland convention, if the last parameter of a function is a function
in this case, then a lambda expression passed as the corresponding argument can be placed outside the
parentheses.
If you look at enhanced audio, we call it enhanced or pass in Halo Paolo and outside of the parenthesis,
we just go ahead and call the lambda and pass another function that will return because he has returned
an integer because we said the finest parameter has shown an integer so we can pass either just a number
there.
I just chose to pass the Add 12 to get one for that function we passing instead of on a call here.
This lambda is just could be anything.
OK, as long as it returns any integer, because that is the contract we have.
And why is this an important concept?
Because now this is important concept again, to really understand is because in jetpack compose, this
is used extensively.
So let's go ahead and actually write this same function here so we can actually see how it all works.
I think that would be helpful.
All right.
Let's go ahead and do it.
So it's just a normal function called is enhanced message as such, and we're going to pass a message
of typed string.
And then here is the fun part being a pass here, a function.
And I'm going to say fun just to be descriptive as parameter.
It's like this.
And this is going to be, of course, a function that returns.
In this case, an integer could return nothing, but we're going to go with the integer, right?
So inside here, we're not going to do much.
All we're going to do is going to say Print, Alan, and I'm going to pass the message back.
Let's just put all inside of double quotes and say, pass the message.
We're passing right arguments, and then I'm also going to pass the function as such because I know
this is going to return an integer so I can actually call it.
So this is what are we doing here calling the function and go from there?
So let's make sure because we're calling this function.
Let's put that inside of the braces there.
So we actually say we're calling the result that we're getting when we call this fun mass parameter,
it's turning into.
So we expect to get an end.
OK.
So nothing really out of this world other than having this fun as parameter passing a function.
When we go to call this function, we can say enhanced message and we pass our message.
And this case is going to say hello there and I could go ahead and pass a function here that would do
whatever we want to do, and we could go ahead here and pass the actual function that we said needs
to go as a parameter.
That's fine, but we're not going to do that because we've been leveraged trailing lambda in Kotlin.
That means which says if the parameter is a function right being passed on a function and is the last
parameter, then we don't need to put anything inside a parenthesis, meaning we can just go outside
of parenthesis, do a lambda like this or open up the curly braces.
Now one thing you will notice, especially when we're using Android Studio or any idea the difference
between lambda and just normal curly.
You see, is that this Calabrese here, because it's just a function, normal function, it's not as
bold as a lambda expression there.
OK, very good.
Now we're going to have a problem here because since we're saying fine as parameter and there's our
lambda, it has, we have to pass.
Of course, what it needs to return, which in this case, it's going to be a number so I can say 12
and notice.
Life is good.
If I find this, we should see 12.
Actually, we're going to see.
Hello there.
12.
Very cool.
Now the beauty here, look at this because we know we're passing this fun as parameter there.
We can call any function as long as it returns.
What?
Yes, an integer.
I happen to have the add function.
In fact, this ad man.
We created a long time ago.
It's another lambda.
I look at the beauty.
So this lambda here you can see we're passing.
These are the types two times and we have two parameters in the body.
So we just adding those two numbers very convenient.
So now I can say 12 12, such if I run this, I should see Hello.
24.
Voila!
That's very neat.
Very, very neat.
OK.
And of course, I can do all sorts of things here.
So this is what we call trailing lambda.
Remember, for this to work, the function has to have as a parameter, the last parameter has to be
a function in this function.
This is a requirement.
Look, if we want it, we could also pass something inside of this finance parameter, let's say, when
it pass a string like that.
OK, then I have a problem because right when you do that, of course, here I'm going to pass something
like, Hey, for now, right when we do that, look what happens.
You probably saw this earlier.
It's we have that implicit eity string, which we know that we have access to that.
How cool is that?
So here I can just see, for instance, print it like that.
If I run this, I'm going to say, Hey, there's hey, hello there.
24 again, this is a very simplistic example, but it really showcases the trailing lambda concept here.
You can imagine that you can create a function such as this a trailing lambda that will allow you to
input some sort of data.
And then it will take that data inside here.
Pass that through another lambda or another function that we call here and do all sort of thing.
OK.
So if you continue this concept, you will see happening a lot in Android Jetpack, this concept of
trailing lambda.
You will find it being used extensively in the jetpack, compose and many other frameworks out there
that use it.
So take your time and understand this concept well.
And if you don't get it right away, it's OK.
But just keep in mind that trailing landers are used, and whenever you want a refresher, come back
to this video that will be very helpful to you.
OK, very well.
I'll see you next time.